docs/docs/advancedInstallation.mdx, before:

---
title: Advanced Installation
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Advanced Installation

## Installation Methods

### Via Script

On Linux or Mac, you can install kitsch by running:

```sh
$ curl https://kitschprompt.com/install.sh | sh
```

Running the script will install kitsch on your system in /usr/local/bin, and display instructions on how to try it out, and how to setup your shell configuration files.

### Manually

You can download the executable for the [most recent release](https://github.com/jwalton/kitsch/releases) for your platform, and copy the executable to /usr/local/bin, or anywhere else on your PATH. Then run `kitsch setup` for instructions on how to configure your shell to use kitsch prompt.

## Configuring your shell

You can get the configuration you need to configure kitsch by running `kitsch setup`. This will try to auto-detect your shell. If this fails, or if you want instructions for a specific shell, you can run `kitsch setup [shellname]`. (Or you can read below...)

### bash

Add the following to the end of your ~/.bashrc:

```sh
if command -v kitsch > /dev/null; then
    eval "$(kitsch init bash)"
fi
```

This won't affect the current shell (unless you `source ~/.bashrc`) but will affect all future shells you open.

### zsh

Add the following to the end of your ~/.zshrc:

```sh
if command -v kitsch > /dev/null; then
    eval "$(kitsch init zsh)"
fi
```

This won't affect the current shell (unless you `source ~/.bashrc`) but will affect all future shells you open.

### Power Shell (Windows)

To use Kitsch on Power Shell, first you need open a Power Shell window and run `echo $PROFILE` to find the location of your `Microsoft.PowerShell_profile.ps1` file. Add the following to the end of that file:

```powershell
Invoke-Expression (&kitsch init powershell)
```

Commit message:

ci: Add homebrew tap configuration.

docs/docs/advancedInstallation.mdx, after:

---
title: Advanced Installation
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Advanced Installation

## Installation Methods

### Homebrew

On Mac, you can install kitsch with:

```sh
$ brew install jwalton/tap/kitsch
```

### Via Script

On Linux or Mac, you can install kitsch by running:

```sh
$ curl https://kitschprompt.com/install.sh | sh
```

Running the script will install kitsch on your system in /usr/local/bin, and display instructions on how to try it out, and how to setup your shell configuration files.

### Manually

You can download the executable for the [most recent release](https://github.com/jwalton/kitsch/releases) for your platform, and copy the executable to /usr/local/bin, or anywhere else on your PATH. Then run `kitsch setup` for instructions on how to configure your shell to use kitsch prompt.

## Configuring your shell

You can get the configuration you need to configure kitsch by running `kitsch setup`. This will try to auto-detect your shell. If this fails, or if you want instructions for a specific shell, you can run `kitsch setup [shellname]`. (Or you can read below...)

### bash

Add the following to the end of your ~/.bashrc:

```sh
if command -v kitsch > /dev/null; then
    eval "$(kitsch init bash)"
fi
```

This won't affect the current shell (unless you `source ~/.bashrc`) but will affect all future shells you open.

### zsh

Add the following to the end of your ~/.zshrc:

```sh
if command -v kitsch > /dev/null; then
    eval "$(kitsch init zsh)"
fi
```

This won't affect the current shell (unless you `source ~/.bashrc`) but will affect all future shells you open.

### Power Shell (Windows)

To use Kitsch on Power Shell, first you need open a Power Shell window and run `echo $PROFILE` to find the location of your `Microsoft.PowerShell_profile.ps1` file. Add the following to the end of that file:

```powershell
Invoke-Expression (&kitsch init powershell)
```
