docs/docs/intro.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Introduction

import ExamplePrompt from "../src/components/ExamplePrompt";

## What is it?

Kitsch-prompt is a cross-platform program for displaying a prompt in your shell. It is designed to be highly customizable, both in terms of what gets displayed, and in terms of how it gets displayed. Kitsch-prompt supports rendering text using gradients, makes it easy to generate powerline-style prompts, and makes use of the Go template engine so you can design prompts where the only limit is your imagination.

```kitsch
globals:
  cwd: /users/jwalton/dev/myProject
git:
  repoDir: /users/jwalton/dev/myProject
  head: main
  currentBranchUpstream: main
  stats:
    unstaged:
      added: 13
      modified: 6
      deleted: 2
    index:
      added: 1
---
```

## Installation

Kitsch-prompt installs just a single executable, so it's easy to try out. It supports Linux, Windows, and MacOS, and supports a number of different shells.

TODO

## Changing Your Prompt

After following the installation instructions, kitsch-prompt is ready to go, and will display a beautiful prompt out-of-the-box. If you want change how your prompt looks, you can start by using one of the [sample configuration files](https://github.com/jwalton/kitsch-prompt/tree/master/sampleconfig). First, find your configuration folder. Kitsch-prompt stores configuration in a hierarchical YAML file. The location of this file will depend on your operating system:

- On Linux and MacOS: `~/.config/kitsch-prompt/kitsch.yaml`.
- On Windows: `%appdata%\Roaming\kitsch-prompt\kitsch-prompt\kitsch.yaml`

You can figure out where configuration is stored by running `kitsch-prompt configdir`.

Grab any configuration file and copy it to "kitsch.yaml" in your configuration directory. The sample configurations are a great place to build from, but be sure to check out the [configuration tutorial][./configuration.mdx].

After you make changes to your configuration file, run `kitsch-prompt check [config-file]` to verify your configuration file.

Commit message:

feat: Add script for installing kitsch-prompt, add setup command for initial setup instructions.

docs/docs/intro.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Introduction

import ExamplePrompt from "../src/components/ExamplePrompt";

## What is it?

Kitsch-prompt is a cross-platform program for displaying a prompt in your shell. It is designed to be highly customizable, both in terms of what gets displayed, and in terms of how it gets displayed. Kitsch-prompt supports rendering text using gradients, makes it easy to generate powerline-style prompts, and makes use of the Go template engine so you can design prompts where the only limit is your imagination.

```kitsch
globals:
  cwd: /users/jwalton/dev/myProject
git:
  repoDir: /users/jwalton/dev/myProject
  head: main
  currentBranchUpstream: main
  stats:
    unstaged:
      added: 13
      modified: 6
      deleted: 2
    index:
      added: 1
---
```

## Installation

### Via Script

Kitsch-prompt installs just a single executable, so it's easy to try out. It supports Linux, Windows, and MacOS, and supports a number of different shells.

On Linux or Mac, you can install kitsch-prompt by running:

```sh
$ curl https://kitschprompt.com/install.sh | sh
```

### Manually

You can download the executable for the [most recent release](https://github.com/jwalton/kitsch-prompt/releases) for your platform, and copy the executable to /usr/local/bin, or anywhere else on your PATH.  Then run `kitsch-prompt setup` for instructions on how to configure your shell to use kitsch-prompt.

## Changing Your Prompt

After following the setup instructions, kitsch-prompt is ready to go, and will display a beautiful prompt out-of-the-box. If you want change how your prompt looks, you can start by using one of the [sample configuration files](https://github.com/jwalton/kitsch-prompt/tree/master/sampleconfig). First, find your configuration folder. Kitsch-prompt stores configuration in a hierarchical YAML file. The location of this file will depend on your operating system:

- On Linux and MacOS: `~/.config/kitsch-prompt/kitsch.yaml`.
- On Windows: `%appdata%\Roaming\kitsch-prompt\kitsch-prompt\kitsch.yaml`

You can figure out where configuration is stored by running `kitsch-prompt configdir`.

Grab any configuration file and copy it to "kitsch.yaml" in your configuration directory. The sample configurations are a great place to build from, but be sure to check out the [configuration tutorial][./configuration.mdx].

After you make changes to your configuration file, run `kitsch-prompt check [config-file]` to verify your configuration file.
