docs/Projects.md, before:

# Projects

The "project" module works out what kind of project the current folder represents, and displays the current tooling versions. This is done through the "projects" top-level configuration item in `${configdir}/kitsch.yaml`. (If you're not sure where your configdir is, run `kitsch-prompt configdir`). Configuring projects in your config file means that if you have custom project types, they'll automatically apply to any theme you install. Let's have a look at one of the default project types:

```yaml
projectTypes:
  - name: node
    conditions:
      ifFiles: ["package.json"]
    toolSymbol: Node
    packageManagerSymbol: npm
    toolVersion:
      type: custom
      from: "node --version"
    packageManagerVersion:
      type: custom
      from: "npm --version"
    packageVersion:
      type: ancestorFile
      from: package.json
      template: "{{ .version }}"
```

Here we can see that each item in the the "projectTypes" list contains:

- `name` - the name of this project type.
- `conditions` - conditions for when to activate this project.
- `toolSymbol` - the default symbol to show for this project type in the "project" module.
- `toolVersion` - the "getter" to use to get the version of the tool.
- `pacakgeManagerSymbol` (optional) - the name of the package manager used (e.g. "npm").
- `packageManagerSymbol` and `packageVersion` (optional) - "getters" for the package manager version and the package version.

A given folder may be ambiguous in terms of project type - for example if a folder contains a "package.json" and a "go.mod", should we treat it as a node project or as a go project? The "project" module will go through the list of project types, and will return the first one that matches - the order in `projectTypes` defines the precedence.

You can add your own project types. All the default project types will be automatically added in after any custom ones you define. You can also re-order the existing project types, or redefine them in part or in whole. This example will re-order project types so "node" takes precedence over "go", and both will take precedence over all other default project types (which will be added in after these):

```yaml
projectTypes:
  - name: node
  - name: go
```

## Conditions

The following conditions may be specified on a project type:

- `ifFiles: ["file1", "file2", "file3"]` - The project type will be selected if one or more of the files is present in the current folder.
- `ifAncestorFiles: ["file1", "file2", "file3"]` - The project type will be selected if one or more of the files is present in the current folder, or any folder higher up the directory hierarchy.
- `ifExtensions: ["js", "jsx", "ts", "tsx"]` - The project type will be selected if one or more of the extensions is present in the current folder.
- `ifOS: ["darwin", "linux"] - The project will only be shown if the OS is one of the OSs listed.
- `ifNotOS: ["windows"]` - The project will only be shown if the OS is not one of the listed OSs.

Note that "ifFile", "ifAncestorFile", and "ifExtension" are "or"ed together - if any one of these conditions is met, the project type will be selected. The "OS" conditions are "and" conditions - if they are not met, the project will not be selected, even if files or extensions match. Also, note that most of the built-in project types do not use "ifAncestorFile" - this means if you're in a subdirectory of a node project, then the "project" module won't show that you're in a node project. This is considered an "acceptable performance tradeoff" - most of the time developers spend time in the root of a project anyways, since that's where you'd run `make`, or `npm test`, or `go build`, or whatever command you'd use to build your project. You can also easily override this, for example adding this to "config.yaml" will fix this for node projects:

```yaml
projectTypes:
  - name: node
    conditions:
      ifAncestorFile: ["package.json"]
```

### Getters

The `tool`, `packageManager`, and `packageVersion` all take a "getter" object that describes how to get an object. There are many different types of getters, but each is a `{ type, from, as, valueTemplate, regex, cache }` object.

`type` and `from` together define the where the data will be fetched from:

- `{type: "custom", from: "npm --version"}` will execute the command "npm --version", and use the output as the value (with leading and trailing whitespace removed).
- `{type: "file", from: "version.txt"}` will load the contents of a file as the value, if the file exists. "from" is relative to the current folder, and may not start with "/" or contain "." or "..". Files may be located in subdirectories, in which case "/" should be used as a path delimiter, even on windows.
- `{type: "ancestorFile", from: "version.txt"}` will attempt to locate the file "version.txt" in the current folder or any folder higher up the directory hierarchy.
- `{type: "env", from: "GCC_VERSION"}` will get a value from an environment variable.

For any getter, you can also specify:

- `as:` - how to interpret the retrieved value - one of `text`, `json`, `toml`, or `yaml`. For `json`, `toml`, or `yaml`, the file will be parsed and the results passed to the `valueTemplate`. For `text`, the valueTemplate will get a `{ Text }` object. If `as` is specified and `valueTemplate` is not, then this getter will never return a value.
- `valueTemplate` - A template used to render the value. Note that the valueTemplate is passed the parsed object from "as" - `.Globals` are not available in this template, nor are style functions.
- `regex` - A regular expression used to extract a value - if there are any capturing groups in the regex, then the first capturing group will be returned. Otherwise, the matched text will be returned. If `regex` is specified, then `as` will be ignored. If both `regex` and `valueTemplate` are specified, then `valueTemplate` will be run after the regex.

An example of the `regex` option can be seen in this example to fetch the version from the `go version` command. This will print a value like "go version go1.17.1 darwin/amd64", and the regex will extract the "1.17.1" part:

```yaml
projectTypes:
  - name: go
    ifFiles: ["go.mod"]
    ifExtensions: ["go"]
    toolSymbol: go
    toolVersion:
      type: "custom"
      command: "go version"
      regex: "go version go(\d+\.\d+\.\d+)"
```

If the "tool" getter returns an empty value or an error, the project will not be selected, even if it otherwise would have been.  For security reasons, a "custom" getter will ignore "." in the PATH. For example, if the command is "npm --version", and there is an "npm" command in the current working directory, then "custom" will not run `./npm` even if "." is in the PATH.

Commit message:

perf(getter): Allow caching results from custom getters.

docs/Projects.md, after:

# Projects

The "project" module works out what kind of project the current folder represents, and displays the current tooling versions. This is done through the "projects" top-level configuration item in `${configdir}/kitsch.yaml`. (If you're not sure where your configdir is, run `kitsch-prompt configdir`). Configuring projects in your config file means that if you have custom project types, they'll automatically apply to any theme you install. Let's have a look at one of the default project types:

```yaml
projectTypes:
  - name: node
    conditions:
      ifFiles: ["package.json"]
    toolSymbol: Node
    packageManagerSymbol: npm
    toolVersion:
      type: custom
      from: "node --version"
      cache:
        enabled: true
    packageManagerVersion:
      type: custom
      from: "npm --version"
      cache:
        enabled: true
    packageVersion:
      type: ancestorFile
      from: package.json
      template: "{{ .version }}"
```

Here we can see that each item in the the "projectTypes" list contains:

- `name` - the name of this project type.
- `conditions` - conditions for when to activate this project.
- `toolSymbol` - the default symbol to show for this project type in the "project" module.
- `toolVersion` - the "getter" to use to get the version of the tool.
- `pacakgeManagerSymbol` (optional) - the name of the package manager used (e.g. "npm").
- `packageManagerSymbol` and `packageVersion` (optional) - "getters" for the package manager version and the package version.

A given folder may be ambiguous in terms of project type - for example if a folder contains a "package.json" and a "go.mod", should we treat it as a node project or as a go project? The "project" module will go through the list of project types, and will return the first one that matches - the order in `projectTypes` defines the precedence.

You can add your own project types. All the default project types will be automatically added in after any custom ones you define. You can also re-order the existing project types, or redefine them in part or in whole. This example will re-order project types so "node" takes precedence over "go", and both will take precedence over all other default project types (which will be added in after these):

```yaml
projectTypes:
  - name: node
  - name: go
```

## Conditions

The following conditions may be specified on a project type:

- `ifFiles: ["file1", "file2", "file3"]` - The project type will be selected if one or more of the files is present in the current folder.
- `ifAncestorFiles: ["file1", "file2", "file3"]` - The project type will be selected if one or more of the files is present in the current folder, or any folder higher up the directory hierarchy.
- `ifExtensions: ["js", "jsx", "ts", "tsx"]` - The project type will be selected if one or more of the extensions is present in the current folder.
- `ifOS: ["darwin", "linux"] - The project will only be shown if the OS is one of the OSs listed.
- `ifNotOS: ["windows"]` - The project will only be shown if the OS is not one of the listed OSs.

Note that "ifFile", "ifAncestorFile", and "ifExtension" are "or"ed together - if any one of these conditions is met, the project type will be selected. The "OS" conditions are "and" conditions - if they are not met, the project will not be selected, even if files or extensions match. Also, note that most of the built-in project types do not use "ifAncestorFile" - this means if you're in a subdirectory of a node project, then the "project" module won't show that you're in a node project. This is considered an "acceptable performance tradeoff" - most of the time developers spend time in the root of a project anyways, since that's where you'd run `make`, or `npm test`, or `go build`, or whatever command you'd use to build your project. You can also easily override this, for example adding this to "config.yaml" will fix this for node projects:

```yaml
projectTypes:
  - name: node
    conditions:
      ifAncestorFile: ["package.json"]
```

### Getters

The `tool`, `packageManager`, and `packageVersion` all take a "getter" object that describes how to get an object. There are many different types of getters, but each is a `{ type, from, as, valueTemplate, regex, cache }` object.

`type` and `from` together define the where the data will be fetched from:

- `{type: "custom", from: "npm --version"}` will execute the command "npm --version", and use the output as the value (with leading and trailing whitespace removed).
- `{type: "file", from: "version.txt"}` will load the contents of a file as the value, if the file exists. "from" is relative to the current folder, and may not start with "/" or contain "." or "..". Files may be located in subdirectories, in which case "/" should be used as a path delimiter, even on windows.
- `{type: "ancestorFile", from: "version.txt"}` will attempt to locate the file "version.txt" in the current folder or any folder higher up the directory hierarchy.
- `{type: "env", from: "GCC_VERSION"}` will get a value from an environment variable.

For any getter, you can also specify:

- `as:` - how to interpret the retrieved value - one of `text`, `json`, `toml`, or `yaml`. For `json`, `toml`, or `yaml`, the file will be parsed and the results passed to the `valueTemplate`. For `text`, the valueTemplate will get a `{ Text }` object. If `as` is specified and `valueTemplate` is not, then this getter will never return a value.
- `valueTemplate` - A template used to render the value. Note that the valueTemplate is passed the parsed object from "as" - `.Globals` are not available in this template, nor are style functions.
- `regex` - A regular expression used to extract a value - if there are any capturing groups in the regex, then the first capturing group will be returned. Otherwise, the matched text will be returned. If `regex` is specified, then `as` will be ignored. If both `regex` and `valueTemplate` are specified, then `valueTemplate` will be run after the regex.
- `cache` - Caching only applies to "custom" getters.  If `cache.enabled` is true, then the getter will resolve the full path of the executable (following any sym-links), and then use the full path, the last modified date, the size of the command, and the arguments as a cache key.  Caches are written to the "cache" subfolder in your configuration directory.  Caching means that, if we're interested in what version of npm is installed, we only need to run `npm --version` if and when the `npm` executable changes (which is good, because `npm version` takes almost half a second, which would add unacceptable delay to the command prompt).

An example of the `regex` option can be seen in this example to fetch the version from the `go version` command. This will print a value like "go version go1.17.1 darwin/amd64", and the regex will extract the "1.17.1" part:

```yaml
projectTypes:
  - name: go
    ifFiles: ["go.mod"]
    ifExtensions: ["go"]
    toolSymbol: go
    toolVersion:
      type: "custom"
      command: "go version"
      regex: "go version go(\d+\.\d+\.\d+)"
```

If the "tool" getter returns an empty value or an error, the project will not be selected, even if it otherwise would have been.  For security reasons, a "custom" getter will ignore "." in the PATH. For example, if the command is "npm --version", and there is an "npm" command in the current working directory, then "custom" will not run `./npm` even if "." is in the PATH.
